i used to think why would anyone need the idea of God? why would anyone need some creature that knows and can do anything while doing nothing, that creature kinda loves and always protects but if you cross the traffic lights thunder does not punish you, i used to think its absurd to even spend time on thinking let alone praying to it. 
but i was wrong, not in terms of God itself but the idea of it.

reality is too complex for the brain to process so we need some anchors, it can be literally anything as long as you can confidently hold on to it. it can be something simple, something absurd, literally statues, ideas, physics or other humans, does not matter.

i actually tried to delete religion from my life, it feels hollow and empty so i filled it up with my own, its basic p = F / A for everything, i call it "love of work and love of deletion", and an algorithm imported from Elon Musk's 5-step algorithm ( question, delete, simplify, accelerate, automate ), actually running the cycle enough times gives you back p = F / A so they don't contradict, as long as i am doing it i am happy, thats all i need, i don't need to ask imams for an answer, i don't have contradictions or the need to go to church, synagogue or mosque for an answer, i can find the answer from within it, from my own vertically integrated religion to give me an anchor.

no believer is strong without solid blind confidence in it, absolute surrender.

"No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision: He is above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things." 
(Surah Al-An'am 6:103)

"He cannot be questioned as to what He does, . . . " 
(Surah Al-Anbiya 21:23)

"The true believers are only those who believe in Allah and His Messenger and afterward doubt not, but strive with their wealth and their lives for the cause of Allah. Such are the sincere." 
(Surah Al-Hujurat 49:15)

i don't need to preach it and have no plans for it but i want my own Allah and i think i have it, p and algorithm are enough for me, the rest does not matter, no objectives, no plans, just cycles, infinite untill death puts hard stop.