
simplicity & consistency, is enough.

Ray Dalio : Principles

"Everything is a Machine"

Оксана Кравцова: Вот сложные периоды в вашей жизни. Они же были? Как вы их перебороли?
Александр Карелин: молча.

Владимир Путин: Россия на рубеже тысячелетий

". . .подход нужен более решительный, жёсткий, последовательный, во всех делах."

Lee Kuan Yew: From Third World to First World

". . The acid test I applied to every theory or scheme was, would it work? This was the golden thread that ran through my years in office. If it did not work, or the results were poor, I did not waste more time and resources on it. I almost never made the same mistake twice, and I tried to learn from the mistakes others had made."

Chris Bumstead: Champion mentality

". . . what I found is that winning doesn't happen on show day, it happens in the early mornings painful workouts long cardio sessions and hungry nights, happens in those moments of fear, we all have when faced with a difficult goal and then more so in what you make of that fear, it happens in every second of every day, before you win, if you can take every opportunity you have to bring yourself closer to your goal, win every one of those opportunities all while becoming more resilient in the process, how can you lose?"
". . . maybe just maybe you can open your mind to the possibility that paradise is found in how you choose to look and act in this world, paradise like our goals, will not really be a destination but an endless horizon we secretly don't want to reach a never-ending reason to keep working and growing with the intention not to accomplish goals but to become someone who can accomplish any goal, winning equally has no finish line it's,  about the responsibility to ourselves to take control of what little things you can in this world regardless of circumstance to train your mind to switch your perspective and focus on being the absolute best you can be in the areas you do have control over having a champion mentality isn't about the trophies medals or success it's about having no quit not letting anyone hear you complain standing up for all you believe in living in your truth and setting the standard at which you operate at for everything in your life, it's about willingly choosing to do every single thing within your power to achieve your end result, at the end of it all you may just find that the trophies and money were never the prize you wanted but rather the journey the mentality you built along the way with everything you ever needed"

Chinggis Khan: Letter to Changchun 1219

"Heaven has abandoned China owing to its haughtiness and extravagant luxury. But I, living in the northern wilderness, have not inordinate passions. I hate luxury and exercise moderation. I have only one coat and one food. I eat the same food and am dressed in the same tatters as my humble herdsmen. I consider the people my children, and take an interest in talented men as if they were my brothers.... At military exercises I am always in the front, and in time of battle am never behind. In the space of seven years I have succeeded in accomplishing a great work, and uniting the whole world into one empire. I have not myself distinguished qualities. But the government of the [Chinese] is inconstant, and therefore Heaven assists me to obtain the throne.... All together have acknowledged my supremacy."

Elon Musk: The algorithm

1. Question every requirement. Each should come with the name of the person who made it. You should never accept that a requirement came from a department, such as from “the legal department” or “the safety department.” You need to know the name of the real person who made that requirement. Then you should question it, no matter how smart that person is. Requirements from smart people are the most dangerous, because people are less likely to question them. Always do so, even if the requirement came from me. Then make the requirements less dumb.
2. Delete any part or process you can. You may have to add them back later. In fact, if you do not end up adding back at least 10% of them, then you didn’t delete enough.
3. Simplify and optimize. This should come after step two. A common mistake is to simplify and optimize a part or a process that should not exist.
4. Accelerate cycle time. Every process can be speeded up. But only do this after you have followed the first three steps. In the Tesla factory, I mistakenly spent a lot of time accelerating processes that I later realized should have been deleted.
5. Automate. That comes last. The big mistake in Nevada and at Fremont was that I began by trying to automate every step. We should have waited until all the requirements had been questioned, parts and processes deleted, and the bugs were shaken out.
". . . It’s OK to be wrong. Just don’t be confident and wrong. Never ask your troops to do something you’re not willing to do. Whenever there are problems to solve, don’t just meet with your managers. Do a skip level, where you meet with the level right below your managers. When hiring, look for people with the right attitude. Skills can be taught. Attitude changes require a brain transplant. A maniacal sense of urgency is our operating principle. The only rules are the ones dictated by the laws of physics. Everything else is a recommendation."
" . . . Do not fear losing. “You will lose,” Musk says. “It will hurt the first fifty times. When you get used to losing, you will play each game with less emotion.” You will be more fearless, take more risks."

Napoleon Bonaparte: Mind of Napoleon

". . . In the Conseil d'état there were men far more eloquent than I, but I regularly defeated them with this simple argument: Two and two is four."
[Letter to General Lauriston, 1804] These three things you must always keep in mind: concentration of strength, activity, and a firm resolve to perish gloriously. They are the three principles of the military art which have disposed luck in my favor in all my operations. Death is nothing; but to live defeated and without glory is to die every day.

Jensen Huang: Stanford lecture Jun 23, 2011

". . . Some of the great advice that I've had over the years, focus, laser beam focus. Don't do too much. Do a few things well and do it with extraordinary intensity. And focus matters. If you look at what I do with my time, I wake up in the morning and the first thing of my time is NVIDIA and the last thing I do is NVIDIA and I do that 24/7. And if I can figure out a way to do that for another 50 years, we're going to be good...."











