p = F / A,

the law of physics dictates that force applied within a small area increases pressure.

physics is not a suggestion, it's not a moral, it's a law, the law of the ecosystem that every atom obeys be it animals, humans, machines or bacteria, it's a large machine whose rules are consistent regardless of who or what you are.

i think a lot about how to get things done and found that this law actually applies to anything, when you concentrate your energy on something it almost always happens but again as long as you solve the equation correctly as physics cares only if the equation is right.

i used to think that hard work does all the job but i was wrong, more work simply does not yield better results and sometimes leads to being used for free or even your own biological failures, instead focused work is gold, i found that deletion is a pure force multiplier, it's remarkable how much we actually do not need and how much truly can be removed from nearly everything, i love the idea of deleting so much that you need to add back at least 10% ( Musk's algorithm ), deletion alone can do so much, life gets better, easier, simpler, much much better than anything else, it feels simply easier to do, easier to breathe, easier to truly achieve things and remarkably good which i simply can't explain as a human being.
it's a simple reduction of "A" area for the equation but there is also another aspect which is "F", force, how to get that?

F = ma, here mass means anything you can mobilize, raw work, money, network or anything you can think of, it does not need to be elite, genius, superior or pure, it just needs to work, whatever that simply works for the purpose as long as it simply does the job. one can argue what if "m" = 0?, i think it's mostly impossible because even Stephen Hawking used his brain, his m was not 0 at all even for a paralyzed human, as long as a human is alive, "m" is always above 0. if you are not dead it means "m" > 0.
"a" is acceleration here, because the ecosystem is constrained we cannot use our own willpower all the time, it's simply too expensive, we need systemic support to be load bearing for us as "dripping water cuts through stone not by raw force, but through consistency". 
consistency helps with momentum and acceleration purely because it compounds, math dictates that anything that stays consistent in nature compounds. speed matters but it should never turn into a rush, when aligned with the first law of deletion it becomes amputation, it's violent and dangerous, we need surgical construction.

simple : delete all the time, stay in your focused priorities consistently, this by itself creates force and speed, so put them first : delete and stay consistent.

that's it.
