the only things that are guaranteed are decay, rust, degradation, atrophy, and death. these are 100% certain to happen to anything, and they are the only things that occur with perfect accuracy. that is why pessimists look smart, because they are right. you literally do not need to do anything for it to happen.

but

success is not guaranteed, regardless of how many variables you control, what you know, or what you have. its probability is almost always much less than 100%, no matter what you are doing.

that is why i believe that having a 0.1% chance of success is better than having a 100% chance of failure. two things matter here. first: “is it worth it?” zero to one is the best book to give you a guide here. second rule: the lower the probability of success, the higher the efficiency you need. for example, Elon Musk’s first-principles thinking and 5-step algorithms are forms of extreme efficiency, largely because his chances of success were very low.

a 0.1% chance of success means you need 99.9% efficiency. it is still better than having a 100% guarantee of failure by doing nothing at all. because it helps you survive longer, move faster, learn faster, make mistakes, understand reality, and pivot faster. efficiency does not mean having zero in the bank. it actually requires a fortress balance sheet and 99.9% efficiency in execution and operations. as long as the target is worth pursuing, surviving long enough through efficiency allows you to learn exceptionally fast, and this alone can make the target achievable, even when the odds are extreme.

that is why i believe pessimists are always right because they are projecting based on guaranteed assumptions.

for example: “you will die” -> is 100% true for everyone. “they will fail,” “car will break,” or anything in between are all true, but if you do not do anything about it or do not learn anything at all, then in that case yes, they are 100% right.

for example, Paul Graham wrote about Elon Musk: “. . . paypal only just dodged this bullet. after they merged with x.com, the new ceo wanted to switch to windows — even after paypal cofounder Max Levchin showed that their software scaled only 1% as well on windows as unix. fortunately for paypal they switched ceos instead.” he is not wrong, he is right, but he underestimated one thing about Musk. one thing that makes Musk really strong is that he learns and makes sharp, decisive corrections, unlike other leaders who keep pushing because of sunk cost. his entire career is defined by rapid failures, mistakes, and fights, but again with rapid learning, recovery, and trying again.

in a world where actions are not taken to learn things fast, pessimists are always right.
