an object at rest stays at rest unless force is applied
- Newton’s First Law of Motion

working hard is the #1 predictor of making things happen.

one can achieve >90% of anything if they work hard, but the critical question is: how? how do you enable your brain to release energy to be able to work harder in the first place?

first: food
there are 2 critical parts of the body that are energy-intensive: the brain and digestion. to stay alive we need food, but its digestion can be costly and take energy away from the brain. ideally, one wants more energy flow to the brain, but that is not always possible. the best solution, i believe, is simple fiber-rich foods or smaller portions of any type of food. the reason is pretty simple: when digestion is overloaded, it needs more energy, and the first thing to take the biggest hit is the brain because it is considered a luxury. when you eat large or high-carb (especially sugary) food, it dumps into the system fast and digestion simply takes as much energy as it can possibly mobilize, which results in a "food coma" where you are unable to function productively. fiber slows digestion, which means the brain has enough energy to continue operations without disruptions.
most solutions try to fix energy at the node level ( supplements, caffeine, focus techniques ) but the real bottleneck is simple: fix the distribution center ( digestion ) first.

second: perception
how we see things matters a lot. if you see work as something impossible, your brain simply will reject energy allocation. you default (mostly unconsciously) to simple activities like scrolling, movies, or anything "lazy." i would chunk things down and enjoy the work itself. also, my personal way in general is to see the world as a machine; you can engage with machines and your input matters there, but if you look at the world as a divine supernatural system, then... most of your inputs are useless, which means your brain will keep you lazy.

simple: eat simple, eat less + look at the world as a large machine where your inputs matter
