"why am i not as happy as others?"
"she is prettier than me."
"he is richer than me."
"we cannot afford the competition."
"the world is hypercompetitive, so there is no need to start anything at all. it's a red ocean."
"those nations have privileges that we don't, they are superior race."

i used to call all of these kinds of thoughts stupid, but now i understand why they exist, even though i know about them, i am still not immune to them myself. the reason has to do with the ancient brain, which measures the world in the most efficient way possible: through looks.

imagine you are walking through a jungle and you see a large number of people running away from a specific direction. there is a very good chance they are running from something dangerous, like a lion. it makes perfect sense to join them. that mindset kept us alive for thousands of years, and there is nothing stupid about it.

today, however, we have much more advanced ways of measuring reality, such as the scientific method, which is not directly connected to human intuition. for example, we cannot see atoms with our bare eyes; we need microscopes.

the human brain is remarkable because it comes with built-in features—factory settings that are present from birth. you cannot truly delete them, but you can assign different values to them. you can decide, "that doesn't matter," or, "that matters." in turn, this changes your response. it is similar to repurposing software for something it was not originally designed to do, yet it can still be remarkably effective.

we can reprogram our minds without changing the biological substrate in the first place. this is probably the most efficient approach because the same system that can simulate persistent pain can also be repurposed to simulate persistent happiness.

this brings me back to ghost stories. external influences are rarely as powerful as internal ones. a person can still be happy in difficult circumstances, live in poverty, or build a successful business in a red oceans. these outcomes are not determined by absolute reality alone but also by the beliefs each individual holds.

simpler:don't look outward. look inward. personal life, markets, business, nations, looks or whatever, always take of look inward.