04.01.2025

i was reading the book of Walter Isaacson about Musk and found very useful algorithm which his companies seems to keep as mantra.

step 1 - question  
it’s critical to understand that our knowledge is incomplete and fallible. bureaucracies are mostly outdated and often irrelevant. most opinions are biased, self-driven, or self-promotional. many ideologies have their own agendas and propaganda, using skewed historical knowledge or exaggerations to serve the people who control them. this makes questioning everything necessary, not optional. one way to do this is through a crash test based on first principles—knowledge that is universal, obvious, and rigorously proven with empirical evidence. everything needs to be questioned, including thoughts, actions, habits, processes, and investments.  
another approach is to constantly consume information deeply, such as through long-form content. this serves as raw material that helps the brain generate deep intuitive knowledge based on patterns. our body and brain are amazingly efficient systems that, if used correctly, can yield incredible results. the key is to use them correctly by providing all the necessary raw materials—such as healthy food, massive amounts of data, and consistent exercise. this, in turn, makes questioning much more sound and logical. even when answers are received, the system can process this data much more productively.  

step 2 - delete  
anything that can be deleted must be deleted. we have much more clutter than we realize, which spreads our resources thin across multiple domains of things that do not matter at all. for example, social media platforms like instagram consume massive amounts of time as people scroll through visual data that is neither relevant nor healthy for mental consumption, while there may be some useful tricks or hacks, the harm of this hedonistic app outweighs its benefits tenfold. 
deletion applies not just to apps or physical objects but also to the mind itself. any negative thoughts, pessimism, or regrets must be deleted instantly. there is no point in holding onto them, as they increase cortisol levels, making the system more dysfunctional by degrading focus.
the reason this step comes second is that first, everything needs to be found, observed, or recognized and rightly questioned—then deleted.  

step 3 - simplify  
if something is important and necessary for the optimal function or survival of the system and cannot be deleted, it must be simplified.  
complexity never makes anything scalable, practical by making focus extremly hard. no one reads massive, complex documentation that even experts struggle to understand. individuals struggle to follow unclear rules. employees and even ai systems find it hard to execute vague orders. students rarely understand teachers who constantly use jargon or terminology that is too complex. it is always better to oversimplify than to overcomplicate. everything—including daily communication—needs to be simple, clear, honest, and direct. if you cannot explain a complex idea to a five-year-old, you probably need to learn it better.  
if your desk is cluttered with unimportant agendas or unnecessary meetings, you are probably not adding value but instead pressuring your system to the breaking point for no reason. even food consumption is an example—our bodies thrive on simple, unprocessed foods but struggle with highly processed and complex meals with long ingredient lists. 

step 4 - accelerate  
anything can be sped up. human life has constraints, and the most valuable one is time. we are systems with a limited lifespan. so far, no one has been able to solve the problem of death. since we universally know that our system has an expiration date, we need to move at full speed toward adding more value to our species.  
speed can lead to mistakes, break things, or even be unnecessary at times. but it also enables quick error correction and adaptation. remember Napoleon at Morengo 1800, he was initially defeated due to his own mistakes but quickly adapted and fixed them on the fly.  
iterating through multiple assumptions, theories, or methods quickly helps spot the real path that works in real life. it is important because you never know for sure which path is correct, and mistakes are nearly inevitable. if mistakes are not corrected fast, they can have cascading effects that worsen everything else.  
know core kernel fundamentals in deep intuitive levels and learn the rest as you go or simply figure out, this is why i believe in problem-oriented learning—learning only the parts needed to solve the task at hand and moving on when done. if knowledge is unavailable, a feedback loop can help: try → break → learn → try again until it works, but make sure you have survival buffer so that mistakes translate to knowledge not suicide.  
but this step must come fourth because it is easier for a 120lb individual to run than for a 600lb individual. only when you get truly lean does it become efficient and effective to go all in with full thrust toward your vision as long as survival is secured through buffer.  

step 5 - automation  
the human system has many constraints, and the only way to expand our capacity is through automation. there are multiple ways to automate operations—through programming, ai agents, robots, or delegating tasks to employees. but the critical point here is to never grow complacent. automation does not mean you can lay back and watch everything work for you. the biggest mistake one can make is becoming too comfortable, taking things for granted, and becoming complacent.  
you are an ultimate system that should know the fundamental core details of the process and the critical levers which actually effects the rest without indulging into micromanagment. when expanding yourself, never lose sight of the parts that could backfire. deep involvement is critical in any method as programs can have bugs, ai can misinterpret instructions, employees can become misaligned, and organizations can develop issues that remain unnoticed if you get too soft in the process.  
in such scenarios, people tend to over-delegate and rely on systems, people, or applications they do not fully understand or even need. this leads to massive inefficiencies, slows everything down, and ultimately causes collapse.  
work with automation itself, and constantly improve it. this requires deep involvement in the process and an intense commitment to staying alert and keeping yourself in shape. by doing this, you can outperform any competitor by moving fast and contributing massively to those who truly need your support.
take full control over the core kernel fundamentals, keep the levers and know every details of that part without trying to occupy bandwith with micromanagment, go deep when it needs when there is a bottleneck but try focus on core fundamentals and let the system breath without constant disruptions, systems needs time to starting to be useful but at the same time care to be consistently work effectivelly.






