05.31.2025

man has a large capacity for effort. in fact it is so much greater than we think it is that few ever reach this capacity. we should value the faculty of knowing what we ought to do and having the will to do it. knowing is easy; it is the doing that is difficult. the critical issue is not what we know but what we do with what we know. the great end of life is not knowledge, but action. i believe that it is the duty of each of us to act as if the fate of the world depended on him ... we must live for the future, not for our own comfort or success.

--Admiral Rickover

sometimes i wonder what is the most sustainable source of fulfilment.
i think it's work . . . simple, raw, without any complexities, extravagant celebrations, or taps on the shoulder. nothing shiny, nothing hard, and nothing complex, just set a goal, go for it and complete it.

i have never felt more alive than when setting targets and getting things done. it's one of the most satisfying moments in my life every time, consistently, with no exceptions so far.

it's a simple loop: clear tasks/goals → basic raw work → complete → dopamine. this is especially true when the problems are new every day—it's like a new flavor of ice cream every day. the only difference is that you get paid for it, and it makes things 10x more pleasant, sustainable, and even scalable.

life is like a never-ending cycle of problems, which makes the supply of the source of this fulfillment loop infinite.

you don't need to win everytime but the process itself is pure joy, its never about outcome, its more about process and what kind of meaning to assign to it which makes things internally powerfull.

i have thought about different types of pleasures too, like food, sex, alcohol, drugs, love, deep conversations, or social gatherings, but none can match the level of consistency as work. i have noticed that nearly all pleasure signals fade over time, and you need more and more as the brain calibrates its state, which puts a person in a permanent state of either progress or regress.

i prefer a self-sufficient, sovereign source of fulfilment that does not rely on external circumstances. this gives more control over the variables and less excuse for my internal consciousness, which leads to the work cycles.

i used to always seek more work for its own sake and got it wrong. now i am teaching myself to aim for more productive courses of action, for the long-term purpose of building compounding effects over time—obtaining levers that allow me to work even more effectively, with 100x more efficiency. this is my version of happiness.

“work is my element. i am born and built for work. i have known the limitations of my legs, i have known the limitations of my eyes; i have never been able to know the limitations of my working capacity.”

Napoleon Bonaparte, 1816
